Document how to run `ledger` tests locally (#4388)
foundry-rs/starknet-foundry: docs/src/development/environment-setup.md

TABLEGEN_190_PREFIX=/usr/lib/llvm-19
```

## Ledger Testing

Ledger tests use [Speculos](https://github.com/LedgerHQ/speculos), a Ledger device emulator running inside Docker. No physical Ledger device is needed.

### Prerequisites

- [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/) installed and running

### Setup

**1. Get the Ledger app binary**

The test suite expects a pre-built Nano X ELF binary at:

```
crates/sncast/tests/data/ledger-app/nanox.elf
```

Build it from the [app-starknet repository](https://github.com/LedgerHQ/app-starknet):

```shell

> $ git clone --depth 1 --branch nanox_2.7.0_2.4.0_sdk_v26.0.2 https://github.com/LedgerHQ/app-starknet

Reviewer: nit:

`app-starknet` will likely be pulled to repo root (assuming also by upcoming repo-relative mkdir).

Should we `.gitignore` it?

Author: > Should we .gitignore it?

We can do that

$ docker run --rm \
    -v "$(pwd)/app-starknet:/app-starknet" \

>     ghcr.io/ledgerhq/ledger-app-builder/ledger-app-dev-tools:5.3.14 \

Reviewer: Nit: should we bump to latest?

```suggestion
    ghcr.io/ledgerhq/ledger-app-builder/ledger-app-dev-tools:5.3.16 \
```

    bash -c "cd /app-starknet/starknet && cargo ledger build nanox"
$ mkdir -p crates/sncast/tests/data/ledger-app
$ cp app-starknet/starknet/target/nanox/release/starknet \
    crates/sncast/tests/data/ledger-app/nanox.elf

> ```

Reviewer 2: `Setup` heading has only one ordered list item (1.). Is this intended?

Author: I wanted to split it more in the beggining, so it's kind of leftover

```shell
$ docker run --rm -it \
    -v "$(pwd):/workspace" \
    -v ledger_build_cache:/workspace/target \
    -v "$HOME/.cargo/registry:/root/.cargo/registry" \
    -v ledger_asdf_cache:/root/.asdf \
    -v ledger_local_cache:/root/.local \
    -w /workspace \
    -e CARGO_TARGET_DIR=/workspace/target \
    ghcr.io/ledgerhq/ledger-app-builder/ledger-app-dev-tools:5.3.14 \
    bash -c '
        [ -f /opt/.cargo/env ] && source /opt/.cargo/env
        if ! [ -x "$HOME/.asdf/shims/scarb" ]; then
            curl --proto "=https" --tlsv1.2 -sSf https://sh.starkup.sh | sh -s -- --yes
        fi
        export PATH="$HOME/.asdf/shims:$HOME/.asdf/bin:$HOME/.local/bin:$PATH"
        [ -f "$HOME/.asdf/asdf.sh" ] && source "$HOME/.asdf/asdf.sh"
        SCARB_VERSION=$(grep "scarb " /workspace/.tool-versions | cut -d " " -f 2)
        DEVNET_VERSION=$(grep "starknet-devnet " /workspace/.tool-versions | cut -d " " -f 2)
        asdf set -u scarb "$SCARB_VERSION"
        asdf set -u starknet-devnet "$DEVNET_VERSION"
        cargo test -p sncast --features ledger-emulator --test main ledger -- --nocapture --ignored
    '

> ```

Reviewer 2: Let's put this into a separate script for better readability, e.g. `scripts/run_ledger_tests.sh`.

Author: I wanted to do more in copy and paste style. I can always add a full script that will copy, build, run etc. if that's okay for you

Reviewer 2: IMO placing this in script will make docs cleaner.

Author: Okay, I just moved it to script then

> ❗️ **Note**
>
> The first run compiles the workspace and installs the Scarb toolchain via starkup. Expect it to take a while. Later runs reuse the Docker cache volumes and usually finish in a few minutes.
>
> Pasting the multi-line `docker run` directly into the terminal may break due to quoting or bracketed-paste behavior. If you hit problems, save the command to a file (e.g. `run_ledger_tests.sh`).

> 💡 **Tip: Clearing the cache**
>
> To wipe all cached volumes and start fresh:
>
> ```shell
> $ docker volume rm ledger_build_cache ledger_asdf_cache ledger_local_cache
> ```

> 💡 **Tip: Linux users**
>

> > On Linux, [Speculos](https://github.com/LedgerHQ/speculos) can be installed natively. In that case, tests can be run directly with:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> On Linux, [Speculos](https://speculos.ledger.com/installation/build.html) can be installed natively. In that case, tests can be run directly with:
```
